(gentle, melodic music)
Get ready to be absolutely charmed
by a young man affectionately called Dougee.
In 2005, Doug was a computer programmer
living in Washington, DC.
Like many of us kept asking if that's all there was to life.
Where's the joy in all of it?
The answer came for him when he was invited
to participate in what is called deeksha,
which is the transference of energy
through an adept's eyes or hands
into another person's field
to help them expand their consciousness.
For the first time he felt unbridled joy,
and decided then and there that this was his life's work.
His journey took him to India
where he studied for years with
the master of deeksha, Sri Bhagavan.
Much to Doug's surprise he was chosen
from among thousands to become
one of a handful of people to administer deeksha
to individuals and groups around the world.
It's so nice to meet you, Doug.
This is something I've been curious about for a while,
because I had run into your friend who has brought you here,
an associate of yours in the deeksha,
I wouldn't say movement, in this tradition.
My son and I had met her in India,
and Stuart had gone through this and said,
"Wow, this is a pretty profound experience."
Then I start hearing about it elsewhere,
and ultimately a few years ago
a man who had created a type of very advanced
neuro-feedback technology called Brain State,
had apparently put some of the people
who had undergone the deeksha on the machine,
and their brain scored out at a really high
fluid, balanced, harmonious level,
which, I don't know,
it's almost like it really boosts
alpha and gamma or something.
And so now I'm curious enough about it that you're here,
and I'm thankful for that.
And let's talk a little bit about what deeksha is,
how it originated,
and the man who originated it, and everything.
Yep, totally.
One thing that should be known is
deeksha's actually nothing so new.
In very, very ancient cultures
it was always understood somebody
who was very passionate to grow in consciousness,
or to awaken.
I guess in modern day terms we'd say seeking enlightenment.
They would actually go off
and they'd find somebody who was matured or flowered
in that state of consciousness.
The way that was understood in the very ancient cultures was
the states of consciousness can actually transfer.
And you can figure that out any day of the week
at your work environments.
Go sit next to somebody who's in a bad mood,
you're not feeling so good.
Go sit next to somebody who's in a good mood,
you're feeling great.
These great masters,
what they would do is they would be in such a flowered state
that when the disciple or seeker's
spirituality would be ready,
they would then move into a very high awakened state
and transfer the state.
That transference of the state
was referred to as deeksha,
which would then literally turn on
the spiritual energies in an individual,
which actually is what they call the kundalini,
that spinal spiritual energy.
It would turn it on,
and it would be the master's job
to make sure it starts flowing properly,
which would elevate that seeker's
state of consciousness in the higher states.
It would eventually lead to a shift in the brain, actually.
Actually changes in the brain have to happen,
where it would be actually a physiological,
irreversible change would shift.
And suddenly that sense of separate existence,
the me and the not me, dissolves.
So that was how it was done in the ancient time periods
this thing called deeksha.
The only downfall in the ancient time periods was
to go see a master was very difficult,
and if the master even would give it to you
was another, bigger question.
And he would probably only give it to
a handful of people who were very serious.
So it wasn't readily available,
and was always very specific.
That's the problem.
The time period we're in right now,
the entire species is needing a shift in consciousness,
that's what's going on.
It's we see very clearly that all the technology
on our planet, and the genius of humanity,
is all intact to make us persevere,
and to live on this planet in a very harmonious way.
What's missing is a state of consciousness,
to where a person actually feels connected
and in love with other people.
Right now we feel very isolated from each other,
and we're sort of in competition to each other.
It's a state of consciousness,
it's a change in the brain that has to happen.
Is it a little bit also
it has to be a change societally
and in a paradigm
in that we've been a very competitive type of environment
up until this point in time.
Yes.
And I think people,
they're seeing examples around them
of just the quirkiest businesses
that are popping up, for example,
like a restaurant that says there is no price.
You just leave what you think it was worth.
Simple examples like that,
but that's really more about this communal openness,
and sharing, and coming to a higher state
that's not driven by fear.
Very true.
Let us say we take a person,
and we take a person who's in fear,
we take a person who feels isolated,
we take a person who's in a mode
of trying a security of survival,
so they're all the time only caring about themselves.
If you take that person
and you put them through any kind of
very intense spiritual process,
which actually awakens the energetic body
and actually brings up the kundalini,
as the kundalini is rising and moving up,
very literally they'll start experiencing
unconditional love,
the move from the state of fear
to a sense of deep peace.
As they're experiencing another person
they'll feel very connected to them.
Their mind won't be chattering,
labeling everything they're experiencing,
they'll be very quiet.
So then you take that person
who was only causing very big problems in society,
coming from now this state of consciousness,
their outlook on how they would deal with society
would be 180 degrees different.
So that's why when we see people
making those kinds of businesses you're speaking of,
if you took them and somehow measure
what state of consciousness they're in,
you'd realize they're actually
in a different state of consciousness
compared to somebody like a very shrewd businessman
who's only out there to service themself,
but nobody else.
You would see it's a different state of consciousness.
So it's states of consciousness.
I'm sorry, go ahead.
With deeksha, I was just gonna finish the deeksha thing.
The thing is in this time period
is that the species is ready to evolve,
that's the whole thing.
And it's very clear. We're all connected globally.
What's missing is kinda we're running on
this old paradigm of the separation.
So where before you had to go see one person
to give this deeksha to you,
and hopefully that would help you,
what's happened is basically there's
a phenomenon on the planet where deeksha is here,
but it's here in such a huge way
that anybody can actually give it,
and anybody can actually receive it.
You don't have to go find yourself travelling, et cetera.
So that's what unique about Oneness University is,
it's a place where you can actually go
and receive this deeksha,
and not only that but you actually get empowered
to where you can actually give this deeksha.
So you literally take anybody from any faith,
they all can give deeksha through their own faiths.
It's not that they have to
do it in any specific way.
So all we care about is
the people have the initiation
or the process of awakening started in them.
Doesn't matter which belief system they're on,
path they're on, nothing like that,
because it's all very physiological.
And how long does this,
say if a person, the someone you talked about a moment ago,
someone who is living in kind of
a defensive position in fear for their own survival,
which collapses you in on yourself, more or less,
and I'm sure you must see a lot of people
like this because it's a painful state to be in,
and no one really wants to feel like that anymore.
So when they come and they go through
this process of deeksha,
how long does that generally last with them?
Is it something that has to be
constantly reinforced,
or is it a one shot deal,
or is it different for everyone?
I can honestly say it's vastly different for everyone.
We've had cases where literally indigenous farmers
in the nearby villages from where the Oneness University is,
we actually have video footage of this,
they literally came and had one deeksha,
and six hours later they had
literally become an awakened being.
And I'm not saying awakening
that they feel like they're in a good state,
I'm talking about the actual shift that Buddha had
where the sense of self is irreversibly gone.
So they're an actual enlightened being, one deeksha.
So we've seen that,
where people with not such a strong mind,
it happens extremely, extremely fast.
That makes sense. The receptivity is there.
Exactly.
The problem with the western cultures is
we have thicker minds, in a sense.
We have so many layers
of what we consider to be ourselves.
So we've noticed with deeksha
that it's people who keep receiving it,
it keeps pushing them, and pushing them, and pushing them.
The one thing we have noticed is
anybody who starts taking deeksha,
we've noticed that it can be a journey,
an up and down kind of journey,
because the engines are getting kicked on,
and it's sort of an up and down journey.
But when they go back down to a lower state,
it's not necessarily the state they initially were in.
There's a big flowering that takes place, actually.
Now the whole purpose of deeksha actually is
as we increase the phenomenon this year,
Sri Amma and Sri Bhagavan are actually
increasing the whole phenomenon
in a very, very big way,
is that eventually it would just only be one deeksha
that would basically cause an irreversible shift
in a huge way.
But we've noticed people
who take deeksha over and over again,
like in their communities and things like that,
they keep on going deeper and deeper.
That's what we've noticed.
And you were talking about
the farmers a moment ago.
One thing that strikes me about that
is you're talking about people
who are very much in harmony with natural law.
And so they have the influences of nature
already running through their systems,
which quiets the mind to begin with.
So how does nature, and natural law,
factor into this?
Yeah, we've noticed that when a person's
immersed deeply in society,
and under all the stress and pressures of civilization,
it adds to so many layers of protectionism,
and survival, and security.
You take a guy who's just living out onto a farmland
with nothing much to do but just grow some grain,
and live his life, there's a tremendous peace,
and a sense of just living that's happening,
a beingness that's very natural with him.
He could have been born that way
because his family was from the same farm.
There was never that kind of stress.
That's why a person who's in nature,
and who's just kind of just living and being,
it's very easy to put them into
much higher states of consciousness.
Yes, that makes sense.
Well, now I want to find out about
your journey in a moment, and you live in India, right?
You live there at the Oneness University,
which, what a stunning facility that is,
and we're going to talk about that
because in and of itself that's a story.
So let's start first with talking about Sri Bhagavan,
and how this came about in this way,
and then we'll go into your personal story.
Sure.
Basically the best way to describe Sri Bhagavan
is there's beings that basically when they're born
simply know why they're here.
And we've seen them throughout our societies,
they're like very driven beings
in a very specific direction.
Strangely with Sri Bhagavan was
when he was a child,
he wouldn't actually be playing
so much with other kids or anything,
he would actually sit very quietly.
And when he was asked at a certain age,
maybe seven or eight years old,
his father used to ask him,
"What are you here to do?"
"What do you plan to do when you get older?"
Which is not an unusual question in India.
No.
That's like parents were all the time
saying, "What do you want to be when you get older,"
and pushing him in that direction.
So Sri Bhagavan would very literally explain,
"The species is about to go through a transformation.
"I'm here to help with this,
"I'll be doing it when I'm a little bit older."
When he was seven?
Seven years old.
Okay, so he was clear. He was very clear.
So if you, mystically speaking,
this is what Sri Bhagavan would describe,
he'd say when he was around three years old
there was an orb of light
that came and sat in front of him.
It didn't leave until he was 24 years old.
It was this orb of light.
And there was some kind of mantra
that was just going on,
being chanted constantly in his head,
moving into the orb.
He says he doesn't know anything about it at that age,
he didn't understand it at that point.
But he knew it was a part of the phenomenon
that he's a part of to help the species.
As he grew and matured more and more,
and he flowered more and more
of understanding why he's here on the planet,
what's needed for humanity,
he realized what needs to happen is
the gift of awakening has to be given to the species,
just like in the ancient times.
It's not that we can really send everyone an email
and say, "Hey, everyone, just become awakened."
And it doesn't work like that, it has to be given.
So in 1989, Sri Bhagavan,
he founded a small boarding public school.
That's where kids would come and live.
And him and his wife Sri Amma,
they basically would teach kids,
and it was a very unique school.
It was a school not based on any kind of competition.
The kids decided all the rules of the school.
So the kids were actually put as leaders,
it was very cool.
At the school in 1989 what happened was
that golden ball that was in front of Sri Bhagavan
for those 21 years or so,
started descending into all the children in the school.
Very literally, in fact.
I know many of children
because they're the guides at the university,
and they would describe it in detail what happened.
All these kids who knew nothing much
about spirituality at all
started having vastly mystical experiences.
Not that Sri Bhagavan suddenly said,
"Hey, everyone, we're gonna practice spirituality,"
nothing like that at all.
Very literally the orbs would descend into the children,
who what their god was from their family,
because in India you know there's so many
various ideas of god.
They would literally see their divine.
And they would see their divine,
it would speak to them,
and it take them on astral journeys,
it would talk to them about things,
it could be healing other kids,
all sorts of things.
One of the guys I know who was a student there
would say that no one would ever wear glasses,
because all the kids would just walk up
and be healing each other.
This was going on in a big way.
It started actually spreading
beyond the boundaries of the school.
It was not that it was like,
"We're a spiritual school and this is what we're doing."
It was a phenomenon spontaneously happening.
That was the phenomenon of deeksha.
So in 1989 this thing started spreading like crazy.
It spread so fast and so strong,
and people had such big awakening experiences
that very literally the authorities got involved
and tried to shut the whole thing down.
So Bhagavan said, "It's not time, humanity's not ready yet."
And he withdrew the phenomenon,
because you can say Sri Bhagavan
very much could just simply,
he'd say he's in control of the phenomenon,
that's one way to say it.
He can either hold the field in,
or express it.
Exactly.
So very literally he withdrew the phenomenon
to certain degree.
And he said, "Let us be a school, a spiritual school.
"And we'll release the phenomenon
"in more of a controlled manner."
And so basically that's what's been going on
with Oneness University for the last 20 years.
The whole heart of what we do is
we help people see where they're at in consciousness.
We help them see the conflicted mind.
Then we give the deeksha
to help basically awaken the body,
to make it move past the mind.
That's the whole thing.
So basically we're the person you go see
to give you the deeksha,
that's what we're doing at large.
We're basically you come here where they blast you,
you move into a state.
Now this year onwards is very literally where
Bhagavan is once again
is just simply releasing the phenomenon
across the whole planet.
No more being any kind of boundaries or boxes.
Wonderful.
And you, how did you become involved in all this?
When did you hear about it?
We had a little chat off-camera prior to this,
and you've been studying many different
streams of information through the years.
And at one point obviously you came in connection with this,
and you've now really devoted yourself
to helping spread this phenomenon.
Yeah.
I was just a computer person from Washington, DC.
I don't come from any religious background,
spiritual background, nothing like that at all.
Not even much of an educational background
besides public school.
I just got caught onto computers,
I lucked out and got a nice job,
and then from there just kind of
followed whatever passions came my way.
My coworker happened to be
a Tibetan kind of monk person.
He's a very talented computer person,
and he started showing me basic meditation.
I started doing it all,
and him and I were really passionate
about becoming awakened at that point.
But I found that no matter how hard I'd try,
I didn't really seem to make it happen.
I'm an American so I'm thinking
you just do it once or twice, and it should all work.
Don't wanna do the input.
Exactly.
I didn't realize people have been on
this spiritual path for 30 years,
I literally though, "Hey, man,
"I did this for three weeks, where's my awakening?"
So I started searching on the internet
because I was getting sort of bored
of the sense that I'm sitting here trying,
it's not happening.
I came across a video on the internet
where a woman was in India,
and she was just absolutely in tears, this woman.
It was an older lady, and she was crying,
and you could tell she was
in some kind of state of consciousness.
She says, "I've been on this spiritual path
"for 35 years and I've tried everything you can think of.
"I'm here, it's the year 2004,
"and there's some festival going on
"where spiritual masters
"from all across the lands have gathered.
"There's some monk here
"on behalf of Sri Bhagavan from Oneness University
"giving some rare energy transfer
"for awakening called Deeksha.
"I never, ever thought awakening could be given,
"but they gave me the deeksha,
"and it's now been one week's time,
"and I am in the most vastest state of consciousness
"I have ever experienced
"in my entire journey of 35 years."
And she literally started describing the state she was in.
And I was sold.
First of all, I wasn't sold, I was thinking,
"If this is real I definitely want this one."
So I very reluctantly went and started researching
as much as I could to make sure
this wasn't anything strange,
or I'm getting myself involved in anything, or whatever.
And I just went and received a deeksha.
And I can tell you this much,
I always thought spirituality was mystical experience this,
mystical experience that.
That day when I received a deeksha,
for the first time in my life
I actually just felt love for myself
and for anybody else.
I was just in love.
That's beautiful.
And this was how long ago now?
2005.
You know, as I'm listening to you,
something's bubbling up, I'm thinking about this,
and I'm going to go back to that
original comment at the top of the interview
about the Brain State technology.
Which is it's working on a neuro-biological level as well.
Essentially when people finish with that
it's a very similar kind of thing you're talking about.
But it's an expensive technology,
to try to find someone to do it,
and go through the process it takes time,
it takes a lot of money.
But essentially this common phenomena
of freeing a person from this
low level anxiety and fear,
it just seems to dissipate.
So there's something happening
on a neuro-biological level with that
that sounds very similar.
This energy transference is accomplishing
the same thing in minutes
without having to go through all the rest of it,
including the expense.
Totally.
Sri Bhagavan actually explained once,
he said humanity would actually develop
in probably the next 50 to 100 years
with the technological abilities
to cause a shift to the brain.
It would catch onto this,
but we're at such a critical moment right now
that the shift has to happen now.
Yeah, that's excellent.
That's exactly where Bhagavan's stance is.
When we say awakening has to be given,
if you wanna, we can take it one more level,
it's very simple to look at.
Is when it says it's to be given,
it actually means it's the divine consciousness
that gives it.
Everyone would say, "Well, what about Buddha, maybe?"
If you actually look at Buddha
he didn't achieve it on his own.
He got all the way to the door,
and he actually was literally couldn't make it.
And only then did the divine energy
or divine intelligence cause the big shift inside of him.
That was the one thing that was very understood
is that a seeker can get to the door,
but it has to be a higher intelligence
has to step in and do something about it, et cetera.
So that's why when you're talking about
changes in the brain, bringing up the kundalini,
opening up the energy centers,
the whole balance of the body,
the different sheaths of your body called koshas,
all these kind of things.
It takes an extraordinary kind of intelligence
outside of our intellectualism.
Yeah, intellect won't take you there.
Exactly.
So technology is trying to catch onto this,
but it may take a little bit more time
for it to have the perfection of
knowing how to exactly to do it.
Well, it's so elegant
that you can simply remove the technology
and have it within the aura
and intention of the person
who's choosing to share it with another.
So much more efficient.
And as you say,
if you're trying to do it quickly
this is the way it has to be done.
Okay, so I don't want to interrupt your part,
so you heard this experience,
you said, "I've gotta find out about it."
So how did it continue from there,
because now you do this all over.
Yeah.
So basically I had this experience
where I was just feeling love.
It took me literally my car at the train
at the end of work was literally
like a five minute walk away.
It took me 45 minutes to get to my car.
I was walking, I was touching leaves,
I was looking at the sky.
I was happy for the first time in my life, really happy.
And it was a peak experience, so it faded off over time.
But it was such a glimpse of the fact
that they're not kidding when they say unconditional love.
It's real, it was a state, and it has to be given.
It was to happen to you.
So I said, "Okay, this is cool."
Now there was another man who was a young man
who was about my age,
and there were some rumors passing around
that he had moved into a very, very
high awakened state through this process.
I immediately signed up to go to India
to try this 21-day process, it was 21 days back then.
So I went over the 21-day process
and this man was there, this young kid.
And he was in this very high awakened state,
and he actually stayed there to become a Oneness guide,
or a teacher there.
And so when I saw somebody my age from my country
in this kind of state of consciousness,
I'm not kidding, it's not like he was,
"Oh, I'm in a good state."
No, if you read about with saints and sages,
and these vast states of consciousness.
Light pouring out of his eyes.
Being able to move into meditation
to where you're like in a extraordinarily deep state,
not like trying to meditate, an actual hardcore state.
When I saw that, and I saw the authenticity of that,
I literally said to myself,
"There may be a thousand paths out there,
"but this is definitely one of them
"that does actually truly deliver
"what it says it delivers."
Because they're not kidding.
They are here to give the state of awakening
and god-realization to people.
And they can do it.
And when I looked at all the monks
they were in these similar states.
These kids are all my age.
I was 25 back then, all of them are 25, 26 years old,
and they were flowered human beings.
So I'm like, "Okay, there's probably many of them,
"but this is one that actually does it."
So I just immediately started pursuing it,
because I was inspired by seeing
somebody from my own country, my own age.
And I pursued it with everything I got.
And at a certain point I just realized,
I wanna live here and do this full time.
This is the greatest thing I've ever come across.
And becoming happy was my first priority.
Because really, when it all comes down to it,
why are we doing anything?
We wanna actually become happy,
and become very complete inside.
So I put my full focus on the whole thing.
And I was very, very grateful.
The university saw my passion, and they said,
"Please stay here and just help us out for a year or two."
And I did that.
And after a while I stressed my interest
that I really would like to become a Oneness guide,
that means everything to me.
And they said, "Yes, please, welcome to this."
And so I've been doing it ever since.
And it's cool, I can tell you this much.
Mother Teresa said the coolest quote
that I can really agree to now at this point.
She said, "A life not lived in service
"is a life not truly lived at all."
And I totally agree with that.
It's to actually live a life where
your whole passion is trying to help to live for a vision
is the coolest thing.
And so that's why I really appreciated
being at the Oneness University,
because not only are you growing spiritually
and really flowering as a human being,
but your whole focus is actually
doing something greater than yourself.
That's really cool.
And that is,
it seems that your generation,
your age and younger really seem to
almost have been born into that new paradigm of thinking
much more so than, say, my generation,
or my father's generation.
And so looking at it for a moment from that perspective,
you see every kind of person coming through in India
to the Oneness University.
You travel all over the United States
and elsewhere, and you share this experience with people.
What do you notice in terms of the receptivity
in the young versus the middle-aged, the old?
Can you even look at it that way,
or is it so individual?
First of all, it's definitely so individual.
One thing I could tell you is statistically speaking,
it seems to be 70% women
of 40 and on up.
That seems to be the core group.
And then the youthful generation
definitely comes in a big way, too.
It's just it's such a big mixed bag,
that's the best way to say it.
Yeah.
But each country also has its own dynamic as well.
Yes, I would think so.
And so really the last on board
are the ones who have maybe a little more challenge
with finding their way there to begin with,
might be the western male, older western male oftentimes.
That's true.
They're kinda locked down
into what they're trying to do.
In the USA, at least,
I don't know if this is global or not,
but you had the '60s.
And the '60s onwards spawned
an entire generation of spiritual seekers.
So I would have to say that core group is still around,
and that definitely comprised of many people who come,
is these seeking their whole life saying,
"Look, I've seen it done to all these other people,
"I want it done to me."
So you have that,
which is a really bedrock of spirituality
is the people who've been around for 20 or 30 years.
But the upcoming generations is there too.
And you can really see it.
A lot of young kids are now coming, young, young kids.
The questions they ask
and the insights they have are profound.
To me this is so exciting.
With the various people that I interview
the one thing that probably thrills me more than anything
is the younger generations,
right down to little kids right now.
Because that is our future.
And the way I view life,
we keep coming back around, that is us,
that is our future quite literally,
not just the planet's future.
And to see this flowering of consciousness in them
shows us it's here now.
It's here, that's very true.
And so this place that you live
is one of the most stunning buildings,
temples, universities I have ever seen.
I really do want to take the time
and go there at some point.
And had I known it was right there,
and had really understood the implications of it
when Stuart and I were in India a few years ago,
I would have stopped by.
I had an incredible experience
at the Sri Aurobindo community there
at the Matru Mandir,
the giant golden sphere there,
which was, the state of consciousness you can go to
within minutes there was so profound.
It's been my most preferred experience
in a dwelling thus far.
However, let's talk about this Oneness University.
This is much more complex in the architecture.
And you and I were talking off-camera
about what this architecture represents,
if we could look at it from a bird's eye point of view.
So let's talk about it.
Sure.
The one thing about this work
is basically this work was never really about
the intellect of a human being.
It wasn't like, "Let's think about what we can do,
"and let's think of good ideas," things like that.
I can honestly say this whole, entire work that's happening
is something that's literally been revealed
in a very literal way, actually.
Even if how you see we operate the university,
we're extremely spontaneous.
We're only just feeling what feels right,
and it just all happens very spontaneously.
It's very unique.
It's not like western things
where you have a board meeting
and decide what you're gonna do for the next six months,
and lay out an intellectual plan.
How this thing has happened was,
in this phenomenon, 1989,
was that so many people moved into
such vast states of consciousness,
I mean, big states, they were becoming quite big mystics.
When you move into these very high states
you can very easily see things mystically,
and a lot of times what you call the divine
or cosmic consciousness
would show you of things to come.
Literally thousands of people,
and very literally thousands,
kept on writing to us over and over,
sharing the visions of what they're seeing is gonna happen
for the next 10 years, 15 years, 20 years,
even up to 100 years ahead.
So we had literally the experiences
from so many people,
and guess what, they all overlapped.
They're all almost similar experiences.
It's like a timeline was presented to us
way back when, very literally.
And what many, many people were saying was
there's some kind of meditational hall or structure
that causes transformation to the species,
and they see thousands and thousands
of actual enlightened beings
sitting in what they call samadhi,
or extraordinarily deep state of consciousness,
sitting in it.
And that that was powering the deeksha phenomenon
of deeksha givers across the planet.
This was seen in visions,
this was all things that was seen.
So people were drawing sketches of the temple
all across the planet.
We never even thought of any kind of concept
to build a temple, nothing like that at all.
It was that people saw this,
and they kept on saying this.
Even when we consulted with an architect
who was the top Vastu architect of India,
we consulted with him,
he for some reason was able to sketch
the whole thing in less than a week's time.
He said he just flew through it.
That's amazing.
Yeah, it was very strange.
Very strange.
Exactly.
So many, many people when they saw the temple
would go into very emotional states because they say,
"I have been seeing this in my meditations
"for 20 years now, 30 years now."
So it was something that you could just simply say
was a part of how the universe or the divine
is expressing this phenomena.
That's the best way to say it.
Because it was never a concept,
it was never like, "Oh, let's build a meditation hall,"
nothing like that.
It was just told over and over, this is to happen.
And the meditation hall itself
was all built off of donations.
People just simply said,
"We have to help humanity."
And they all, thousands and thousands of people,
just donated whatever they had,
money that they could spare,
and they built a temple from that.
Was it contracted by the local workers,
or did some of them also donate their time?
The complexity of this structure is just amazing.
Yeah, it is amazing.
I mean, you think it would have cost
$50 million to build such a facility.
Because of the uniqueness of how this was built
it had to have been done in a professional way.
We were fortunate enough to come across
the top architect,
and I believe he was the architect
for Sri Aurobindo's design as well.
I believe it was the same architect.
So he was one of the most famous guys in India
as far as Vasta architecture.
So basically he had his own company
that would actually build it, et cetera.
So the strange thing about it, though,
was it normally takes 15 years to build something like that.
The whole thing finished in eight or nine years.
It was very strange, the whole circumstances.
The whole vision of the work's really simple, actually.
There was an ancient prophecy by a Buddhist saint,
I think literally a thousand years ago.
He was in a very high state, so he was a mystic.
He was able to see things that were going to come.
He said, actually, "When big iron birds fly in the sky,
"man achieves awakening in under three minutes."
Now the one thing that many, many people have seen
is that there's a shift that's about to happen
that meets what's called critical mass.
There's enough awakened people on the planet
that you could then transfer the state to another person
just like that.
And it causes the actual shift in the brain.
So what's happening is
all the work we've done for the last 20 years
has been preparation.
We've just been preparing the groundwork,
sort of like a farmer would prepare a field.
We've been preparing the soil
because the rains were coming.
The phenomenon by Amma and Bhagavan are releasing,
are releasing in a very, very big way now.
And it's pushing the critical mass numbers as we speak.
The whole, entire vision was to create
0.001% of the species to make them awakened.
That makes a chain reaction to happen to the whole species,
because one awakened person
affects 100,000 people.
So all you need is 70,000 people
to affect 7 billion.
But from what I'm seeing
just of the little flags on the map
of the locations in India alone,
you're talking about many millions.
Yeah. Basically, exactly.
If you disperse
there's something called phase transition.
Basically if you take water and you put it in the freezer,
the water, when it's turning to ice,
it doesn't slowly turn to ice at all, actually.
Little teeny pockets of particles
start happening, of crystals.
And then spontaneously when critical masses happen
the whole thing becomes ice.
Same thing with actually changing
consciousness in the whole species.
You just take about 70,000 people,
and they actually have to become awakened.
They have to actually be an awakened being.
But basically when they're dispersed across the planet,
it starts a chain reaction.
The whole purpose of the Oneness Temple
was that a portion,
about 7000 of those people just rotating in and out,
would be in the meditation.
These are actual awakened people,
not just somebody coming to meditate,
actual awakened people.
That creates a battery pack.
Then if you're somebody like Amma and Bhagavan,
you have the ability to take that
and push it through the 70,000
that's across the planet.
So when they go to give the deeksha,
it could easily cause a shift in under three minutes.
That's why Bhagavan says
we should respect this man's prophecy.
We should make it come true.
So the whole goal for this time period, basically,
is that everyone has spoken about
a great awakening happening to the species,
and there's so many organizations,
so many great masters, so many great beings,
all pushing towards the same thing.
It's building the critical mass.
We should be seeing this year onwards
awakening being very spontaneously happening.
And that's what the whole world of deeksha is.
It's supposed to not have any boundaries.
A person just simply is in a good state,
they transfer it,
the person pops into a good state,
they transfer it, and so on, so forth.
So how available is this globally?
Obviously it's saturated throughout India,
but what about the other countries?
It's basically very popular
in almost every single country in the whole planet.
There's most likely around 80,000 to 100,000
deeksha givers all across the whole planet,
and there's about 4000 people who can make deeksha givers,
we call them Oneness trainers.
So very literally anywhere you are in the whole planet
you could very easily find somebody
pretty much right down your street,
and they could make you a deeksha giver.
And then you could just walk around
giving deeksha to anybody you want, very literally.
And so that can happen in your own neighborhood,
you don't have to go away for three weeks to India.
However, I want to experience that building,
I wanna experience that temple.
Is it complete now?
Yeah, I'd say it's 99% complete. Just small polishes.
I was reading that it is
the largest structure of its kind
with no supporting internal pillars in Asia.
Yep, exactly.
That's kind of Rudolf Steinerian,
the homes that he'd built, his personal home.
Again, everyone was just marveling
at the fact that there was no apparent means
of internal support for this gigantic structure.
And this is what you're looking at here.
Exactly.
And the whole purpose of that
is basically to where you can have
thousands of people all sitting in meditation,
and the energy would be totally
locked in together conducive.
Because think about this.
We all go visit,
any time there's an awakened being to America,
we all go and visit and get the blessings from them.
Could you imagine going to a temple
and seeing 4000 of those kinds of beings
sitting in the deepest states of meditation.
Like, you couldn't imagine that.
In fact I don't know any place
that exists like that, per se.
Maybe there is, I don't know.
Sounds like Heaven to me.
Yeah, exactly.
It's a hardcore kinda thing.
So that's what the whole structure is built for.
A lot of people see it,
they don't understand the whole purpose of it.
It's actually just for that.
And when you're looking at it,
and when people look at this picture,
you were explaining that the architect
built it so that it was this sacred yantra
built three-dimensionally.
And that's why such unique features.
Yeah, exactly.
So the sacred geometry is embedded,
obviously for the expansion of consciousness.
It even has literally a moat of water that goes around it.
In fact, the architect, because of his studying in Vastu,
was explaining that when you literally
surround something by water,
it breaks off the interfering energies or frequencies.
So the way it's built,
if you ever had a chance to speak with the architect,
it's built in such a way
that what's supposed to happen,
how we have our campus set up for the near future, actually,
and if you come in a couple months, or six months right now,
you would actually see what I'm about to speak to you about.
Very literally thousands of people all day long
would be walking and literally walking up the steps.
As they walk up each spiral of the steps and walk around,
it activates a different chakra, actually.
The whole thing is built to actually turn on
the whole entire engine.
You get up to the top floor,
and you just would walk around
the top floor maybe three times,
and you'd walk all the way back down and leave.
When you have thousands of people
who are in these very high states meditating,
most likely a mass of irreversible shift in conscious
would happen just by doing that.
And that was what was seen in so many visions from people,
was that they saw there was this temple,
and millions of people all day long were going there,
and they were actually becoming awakened beings.
So that's actually our whole preparation for the temple was
we've had to prepare everything,
because we know as soon as the green light goes on
we have to be ready for the fact
that many people would come
literally to have this experience.
So that's actually the whole...
It almost sounds like a generator.
It's a generator. That's exactly what it is.
I mean, I can feel it
when you're talking about it.
And it sits on the ley lines of our planet.
You should actually understand this,
it was actually built in a very specific land,
in a very specific position to literally react.
And its purpose is actually to be around
for the next thousand years.
When you have beings like Amma and Bhagvan,
they're what you call avatars.
But when you have beings like that,
they don't look at small things.
They're actually looking at a species,
and they're concerned about it flowering and sustaining
in harmony with this planet's surroundings.
So they actually look long-term.
The whole purpose of the structure
is this would be maintained with its purpose
of people meditating in it
for the next thousand years or so.
And the reason why, very literally the reason why,
is that any time throughout our next thousand years,
any society that starts dipping
in lower states of consciousness from some tragedy,
something, lower energies, who knows.
Because you have a structure like that
on the ley lines of the planet,
it creates such a field that literally within
that lifetime or generation of that society,
they would naturally raise that back
into high states of consciousness.
So it's a fail safe to make sure the species
doesn't dip into lower states.
What a beautiful vision,
and stunning accomplishment.
It's cool, it's definitely cool.
When you go there you feel it.
You can feel it looking at the pictures
and just sitting with you as you're explaining it,
you can feel it.
And so this is your life now.
Yeah, it's what I do full time.
Well, you look pretty darn happy.
It's a lot of fun.
You were looking for happiness, you found it.
And how is it living in India at the facility now?
As coming from the east coast?
Yeah, I'd have to definitely say
there was an adjustment period
of the precision and how we all
base everything on time here.
Everything is by the minute, exact and precise.
So in India it's quite different.
Everything sorta happens spontaneously.
It's a very vast different thing.
Once I got through that, once that kinda broke in me,
which was pretty much the greatest blessing
if that ever breaks in a person,
because they can really take any situation.
I love it, absolutely love India.
And it's home now, so it's fantastic.
And I'm a person,
the growth in consciousness is a very endless thing.
I'm a person who's very naturally
somebody who is very passionate to continue to grow.
So being there, just being at the campus,
because it has such energy, the phenomenon's there,
and you have so many monks in such vastly high states,
and you have Sri Amma and Bhagavan there.
There's such energies there that even just living there,
it's a constant deep process
of deepening, and growing, and flowering.
So since I'm somebody
who's very focused on spiritual growth,
living there is actually a privilege to me.
I don't actually look at it like I'm just living there,
I'm actually really grateful
any chance I have to live there.
Because you're just constantly flowering and growing.
It's fantastic. That's all I can say.
Have you gone back to DC?
Yes.
How was that for you?
It was wonderful.
I tell you it was so neat is this,
every time I come back home
I find that I have more and more respect, and reverence,
and sacredness, and gratitude
towards my family and my friends.
I see them in such a different light.
It's new and neat, because spirituality,
so many people have some concept
that it's about escaping life,
it's about just being in some mystical state
but it's not.
It's about actually flowering as a human being.
It's about actually appreciating, and respecting,
and healing all your relationships.
It's about actually becoming a real person,
and owning up to what's really going on
with yourself and others.
I've noticed that my relationships
with my mom and my dad,
I'm like best friends with them now.
I never was like that, per se.
I really value all my friends and things like that.
Every time I come home,
to see things in a new light like this is so cool.
So it's really neat.
So any final thoughts?
Anything you'd like to share with us
before we sign off here?
So this year what's happening,
the reason why I'm traveling in 2012,
is that Sri Bhagavan is increasing this deeksha phenomenon
in a really, really big way.
And basically there are gonna be people
all across the planet doing something called
the Oneness meditation.
It's a form of deeksha.
Normally deeksha's a hands-on thing,
but it's a form of deeksha
that's given through the eyes.
It's a very, very powerful kind of thing.
Amma and Bhagavan are returning
to what happened in 1989.
They're sort of increasing it to where
a person's literally transmitting that experience.
So if you go to onenessmeditation.org,
I'm able to plug that?
Yeah, absolutely.
So if you go to onenessmeditation.org,
you'll be seeing a list of people all across the planet,
these are Oneness trainers,
who are able to actually give this Oneness meditation.
And I just highly suggest
if you're spiritual or interested in
any kind of growth in consciousness,
or just to become a happy person,
just go attend it.
All these things are free.
The Oneness meditation's totally free.
You just find out where it is,
you show up at the event,
and you just stare at the person in the eyes.
So as I travel around USA and Canada
I would also be doing this,
and there's many people who are gonna be doing this.
But it's you have a chance to really experience
a very, very powerful deeksha.
And it could very literally make you move into
very irreversible states of consciousness.
You can become a very happy human being,
that's the best way to say it.
And once the engine of spirituality starts in a big way,
it's an endless automatic process.
One shouldn't think you either make it or you don't,
it's more like when it kicks on,
every day it happens automatically.
So that whole purpose of the Oneness meditation
is to kind of turn on that engine.
Fabulous, and a neighborhood near us.
Yes, very literally.
Oh, very good.
Thank you so much for your time
as you're passing through this part of the world,
because I know you're flying out
to other parts of America in a couple days.
And thank you for taking the time with us. Beautiful.
Namaste.
To connect with a deeksha group near you,
you can go to their site at diksha.com.
It features a worldwide directory of trainers
so you can receive the energy,
and also learn to share it with others.
If you have the opportunity
it's truly a sublime experience
to sit with Dougee when he goes into
his high state of consciousness.
Until next time, thanks for watching CMN.